# My Personal Project

## What will the application do?
My application will essentially be an **epidemic spread simulation**. 
There will be an interface where users can insert the conditions for a disease 
such as the infection rate, fatality rate, number of people in population, etc.
Additionally, I will be adding special features that can be turned on/off by the
user such as population growth, recovery rates, etc. Then, once the user has 
determined the conditions for the disease, they can view the simulation through
an interface which showcases the population and their current condition (normal,
sick, dead). After a specified period of time or after manually stopping the simulation
from running, the user can look at the graphs generated by the simulation after. Some 
examples include:
- Infection Rates vs Time 
- Fatality Rates vs Time
- Recovery Rates vs Time

Users can also receive statistical analysis of each of the graphs such as 
providing a simple linear regression analysis, descriptive statistics, and even
inferential statistics using certain methods. 

## Who will use it? 
My application can be used in various situations. From a high school student
to a data analyst specialist, there is a limitless amount of uses for this application.
From one perspective, my application can be used as a "for fun" model where users can play
around and test out different combinations of conditions and look at the statistical
outcomes of each event. From another perspective, this application can be used on a more
macro level where government health agencies, educational institutions, and even data analysts
can use this application. From providing simulations that encompass various factors and 
allows researchers or doctors in testing different intervention method to having this tool
used as an educational tool for providing hands-on experience in modeling and analyzing 
epidemic situation. At the end of the day, **Anyone could use it.**

## Why is the project of interest to you?
This project is very interesting to me as I have always been really into data science 
statistics. Analyzing data has always been incredibly intuitive to me and this project
that allows me the actually simulate the data that I need to analyze brings my interest
even higher. I already have a strong idea of how I want to implement it which makes
the project all that more feasible to create.Additionally, I think that this would be incredible project to put on my
personal portfolio as it demonstrates many skills such as statistical analysis, 
data visualization, and it would ultimately be a great showcase for my knowledge of 
Java. 

## User Stories
- As a user, I want to be able to add a person to the population
- As a user, I want to be able to view the simulation in real time
- As a user, I want to be able to view the statistical information at the end of the simulation
- As a user, I want to be able to turn on/off multiple variable conditions
- As a user, when I'm simulating the simulation, I want to be able to save my simulation
- As a user, when I start the application, I want to be given the option to load
any previous simulations from file

## Instructions for Grader
- You can generate the first required action related to the user story "adding multiple people to a Population"
by initializing the number of people in the population at the start of the simulation
- You can generate the second required action related to the user story "adding multiple people to a Population"
by adding people throughout duration of the simulation
- You can locate my visual component by the splash screen and at the statistics panel
- You can save the state of my application by clicking on the Save Simulation button after initializing a 
simulation
- You can reload the state of my application by clicking on the Load Simulation button before initializing a new
simulation

## Phase 4: Task 2

Mon Apr 01 09:18:33 PDT 2024
Added group of 100

Mon Apr 01 09:18:35 PDT 2024
Added group of 10

Mon Apr 01 09:18:35 PDT 2024
Finished simulating day: 1of simulation

Mon Apr 01 09:18:36 PDT 2024
Added group of 10

Mon Apr 01 09:18:36 PDT 2024
Finished simulating day: 2of simulation

## Phase 4: Task 3

In terms of refactoring my project, I feel like my PopulationDay
class could have been broken down into two classes. Right now, 
my PopulationDay has all simulation information, and the methods 
that actually simulates the simulation. Breaking it down where PopulationDay
and SimulationDay into two different classes where SimulationDay holds
an object PopulationDay and has all the methods to simulate 
would make the code more readable. Additionally, my GUI code for 
SimulationPanel was incredibly messy and unnecessarily long. There
was a lot of duplicate code that were just responsible for creating labels, 
frames, and buttons that could have been simplified to a function. I also
had to use the @SuppressWarning a couple of times.

I also didn't comment the functionality behind some of the code in my UI
and PopulationDay classes. In my project I had comments above each method
as per the requirements but, sometimes the implementation was incredibly 
confusing for me when I looked back on the code. For my PopulationDay the 
simulation of all the data was also quite confusing so for next time, I should
document what's happening in the implementation (for ex. //generate odds 
or //look through population to find sick people) of the methods as well to
make the code more readable. Overall, this project was very found to build
with the help of the project requirements and was an incredible learning journey!
